let's get a little philosophical and
talk about a topic I really love known
as encapsulation so I'm gonna bring up
this topic in the context of our enemy
complexity anytime we try and build
programs that's the thing that we have
to contend with it's not the language
itself right it's not the semicolons and
the whatever else and it's not even
necessarily the bugs that we face or
whatever the main enemy ultimately is
complexity that's the source of our
anxiety and that's the thing that makes
a good programmer different from a bad
programmer is the ability to handle
complexity so you guys saw it whenever
in these lecture videos I built the
basic array and linked list based class
whenever you sat down and built a
somewhat larger thing the array and
linked list based Dex you had to contend
with more complexity and keeping that
complexity under control was the
principle challenge of that assignment
and I'd say that the difference between
someone who spent four hours and 20
hours on that project is most mostly how
they handled that complexity how they
managed all the pieces how much of the
program they tried to keep in their
brain at one time okay so there's a
bunch of different tools for managing
the complexity of something we're trying
to fill one of them is hierarchical
abstraction so what have you built
something truly huge it's very important
that you have layers of abstraction so
that somebody for example who wants to
use a list doesn't need to know about
the fact that there's an array under the
hood okay so that's something that's
very familiar and that's something you
didn't spend too much time fretting with
on project 1a however moving forwards
we're gonna go two scales much bigger
than project 1a and 1b on project 2 and
that's where these ideas are gonna be
super important so hierarchical it's a
hard word hierarchical abstraction is
one way and another is this lovely set
of ideas that a computer scientist named
David Parnas put together which
basically is built around the notion of
design for change okay so what David
means by that is you should assume that
you have some massive system that each
of the individual pieces can be swapped
out however changes can be made all the
time and your design should be such that
those changes don't break the
system okay so everything should be
built into nice modular pieces that
interact in nice ways so some
recommendations is to organize programs
around objects that's the entire object
oriented paradigm that we've been seeing
over and over in Java so that is for
example in Java all of the things that
have to do with the list are in one file
the ArrayList deck for example file and
all the information about how one of
those works is there all of the
functions are there all the instance
variables are there and that one place
another thing is this notion of letting
objects decide how to do things so for
example with interface or with
implementation inheritance and interface
inheritance for that matter
whenever you override a method whenever
I call the add last method dynamic
method selection calls the right the
right function and things work
beautifully
that's another instance or that's an
example of how the Java language
incorporates these ideas now another
that's really important is this notion
of hiding information that others don't
need and this is so fundamental and so
important to managing a big system and
it's something that some of you guys are
starting to see a little bit of
challenges with with project 1b as I'll
explain in a short while now this whole
notion of managing complexity the reason
I'm going on this little rant here is
that I want to remind you that this is
ultimately the thing that's going to
make you successful or not successful as
a programmer is this notion of managing
complexity so this term there's term
encapsulation I'm borrowing these
definitions from Jonathan Xu check who
also teaches this class sometimes and so
he defines a module as a set of methods
that work together as a whole to perform
some tasks so maybe you have a class and
these maybe five or six methods they do
something right they'd capture the
notion of a list or whatever and we'll
say that a module is said to be
encapsulated if the implementation is
completely hidden that is the only way
that you can interact with this object
is through a documented interface so the
little picture I have here on the left
is of a cell even though the internals
of a cell are incredibly complex you
know you have chromosomes and ribosomes
and tRNAs and whatever else this object
from an outside perspective it's
encapsulated you don't really need to
know how all that works to know
things like bacteria can make you sick
or whatever else they can do for you
make your produce knocked out you know
bacterial stuff
likewise in a raid deck you don't need
to know how the internals work you have
a documented in interface add last
remove last size and so forth and that's
the way you interact with it so I'm
project 1b let's see how encapsulation
really can be an important notion by
considering some questions that students
have okay
so project 1b you have to build an auto
grader for project 1a which was the
construction of this class and another
and I'm assuming if you're watching this
video you've already finished project
when I have not maybe this example will
be lost on you but in project 1b you
have to know I have to write tests that
prove that a specific implementation of
array deck is broken so some questions
students asked how do we check the
length of student in the raid a I'm
trying to find a bug in the resize
method I know it must have one but I
don't see how to check the length in
fact if I tried to do student arrayed
act it's not working so I don't know how
to check whether or not it expands or
another I wanted to test whether
resizing is working properly but when I
try to call array the items not linked
the compiler yells at me and it says
this is a private variable is there some
way around this or do we just not test
that or another can we assume these
things about student array deck can we
assume that uses next front equals four
next last equals five and starting size
array a so in all of these cases the
student trying to write an auto grader
is trying to think below the level of
abstraction that I think is most
appropriate it's just like imagine
imagine going to the doctor and you're
trying to figure out for example why
someone is sick okay or are they sick
let's say are they sick even simpler
question so you can ask them questions
and say you know how you feeling you can
check the reflexes and you could also
take a slice of their finger and put it
under a scanning electron microscope and
look at it at the atomic level but the
point is that's not really important
maybe you would learn something maybe
you wouldn't but the basic functioning
of a human is based on some higher level
principles and trying to go down to that
low level is just not the right way to
diagnose the sickness of a person any
more than this I think is a good way to
diagnose the sickness of a class now
sometimes it makes sense to
tests at this very low level of
abstraction but I think imagine our
purpose or sorry our goal as autograder
writers as instructors we have no idea
how you wrote your array deck I mean you
could have done any number of really
strange things and we would we wouldn't
know maybe you have two arrays five
array so who knows and we have to just
make sure that things obey the interface
that is the module you built we're gonna
treat it as a nicely encapsulated thing
and they're gonna make sure that it
behaves the way we expect
so in effect as the user of an array
deck you cannot observe the internals in
the array deck ideally and one thing I
love about Java is that the private
keyword makes it actually impossible
well unless you use a special library
called reflections to look inside of the
object and even when you write tests you
don't usually want to look inside so
this right here this picture I want to
bring this back okay
so always in any Java program in any
program you ever write there's gonna be
this high level of abstraction and a low
level of abstraction and often will
actually be many layers of these things
over and over that make it so you only
have to think about one universe at a
time so this example I had before was of
the cave dwellers as far as they're
concerned the list contains five three
one seven and twenty two now of course
the monks here who are manipulating the
shadows using these devices and this
fire they know that the secret is
there's actually an array of length 100
there's a size variable all this stuff
but the user has no idea and when you
write tests you should be thinking like
a user you should be thinking what can I
do to interact with these shadows to see
if they have a self-consistent logic so
for example I don't know I make like a
horse noise or whatever maybe I expect
this horse to react and the bass did not
react
it's these monks job to do there to make
sure that things are manipulated
properly but I'm not supposed to ask
someone here I'm not supposed to climb
over the wall and start asking the monks
questions because I don't even know this
world exists the private keyword makes
this wall absolute and I think that's a
lovely thing about Java ok so when it
comes to encapsulation one thing I want
to mention here is that in Java that
it's just a great language for making
encapsulation have more teeth right you
can use encapsulation in a language like
Python but there
the thing it's more convention that it
is enforced by a compiler so it's a
little more serious in Java so by making
instance variables private and methods
like resize private you're in better
shape now as we'll see in the next video
one thing I think is very interesting is
the interplay between implementation
inheritance and encapsulation and in
fact it's fundamentally broken in a way
that I think is very interesting